
=head1 NAME

MCE - Many-core Engine for Perl. Provides parallel processing capabilities.

=head1 VERSION

This document describes MCE version 1.504

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Many-core Engine (MCE) for Perl helps enable a new level of performance by
maximizing all available cores. MCE spawns a pool of workers and therefore
does not fork a new process per each element of data. Instead, MCE follows
a bank queuing model. Imagine the line being the data and bank-tellers the
parallel workers. MCE enhances that model by adding the ability to chunk
the next n elements from the input stream to the next available worker.

Chunking and input data are optional in MCE. One can simply use MCE to have
many workers run in parallel.

=head1 CORE MODULES

Three packages make up the core engine in MCE. New to the 1.5 release is the
inclusion of the bounds_only, gather and time interval features. In addition,
the core has an overall faster IPC engine when compared to prior releases.

=over 3

=item L<MCE::Core>

Provides the core API for Many-core Engine.

=item L<MCE::Signal>

Temporary directory creation/cleanup & signal handling.

=item L<MCE::Util>

Public and private utility functions.

=back

=head1 MCE ADDONS

=over 3

=item L<MCE::Queue>

Provides a hybrid queuing implementation for MCE supporting normal queues and
priority queues from a single module. This module exchanges data via the core
engine to enable queueing to work for both children (spawned via fork) and
threads.

=item L<MCE::Subs>

Exports functions mapped directly to MCE's methods, e.g. mce_wid. The module
allows 3 options, e.g. :manager, :worker, :getter.

=back

=head1 MCE MODELS

MCE 1.5 introduces 5 models for automation behind the scene in generating the
MCE instance and auto-tuning chunk_size and max_workers. The models configure
MCE, spawn plus shutdown workers when the script terminates.

The models take Many-core Engine to a new level for ease of use.

=over 3

=item L<MCE::Loop>

Provides a parallel loop utilizing MCE for building creative loops.

=item L<MCE::Flow>

A parallel flow model for building creative applications. This makes use of
user_tasks in MCE. The author has full control when utilizing this model.
MCE::Flow is similar to MCE::Loop, but allows for multiple code blocks to
run simultaneously with slight change to syntax.

=item L<MCE::Grep>

Provides a parallel grep implementation similar to the native grep function.

=item L<MCE::Map>

Provides a parallel map model similar to the native map function.

=item L<MCE::Stream>

Provides an efficient parallel implementation for chaining multiple maps
and greps together through the use of user_tasks and MCE::Queue. Like with
MCE::Flow, MCE::Stream can run multiple code blocks simultaneously with
slight change to syntax from MCE::Map and MCE::Grep.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

A placeholder for the examples included with the distribution.

=over 3

=item L<MCE::Examples>

=back

=head1 REQUIREMENTS

Perl 5.8.0 or later. PDL::IO::Storable is required in scripts running PDL
and using MCE for parallelization.

=head1 SOURCE

The source is hosted at L<http://code.google.com/p/many-core-engine-perl/>

=head1 AUTHOR

Mario E. Roy, S<E<lt>marioeroy AT gmail DOT comE<gt>>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2012-2013 by Mario E. Roy

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of either: the GNU General Public License as published
by the Free Software Foundation; or the Artistic License.

See L<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/> for more information.

=cut

